Strategies used in SCM may differ for different items.
For instance, expendable or commodity type items
that have recurring demand may need a more efficient
supply chain to reduce cost.
An example of this would be ordering gowns.
If you buy a large supply in bulk,
you should get cost savings by the amount that you purchase.
Non-expendable, non-recurring, or customized items
may need a more responsive supply chain.
An example of this is replacing a CT scan machine.
Due to the specialty and cost of the item,
it may have to be researched and approved
by clinical staff and the equipment committee.
Commodity type items have a more predictable demand
and need an efficient supply chain.
Customized items have a more erratic demand
and need a more responsive supply chain.